when this timer hits zero I'm gonna hit
this big red button and set of that
fireworks display with just one minor
change of plan those ten minutes of
fireworks are gonna get set off in ten
seconds today we're firing mainly an
aerial show so that'll be shells right
out of the tubes you can see behind us
they're launched up to Heights throwing
stars out ranging from 60 to 120 meters
you've then got ground-level effects
which are mines pretty much shells but
without the lifting charge and then
finally there are a couple of slices
that I'll throw out with from a design
point of view traditionally most of the
shows would do synchronized to music
normally in a 10-minute track we could
have anywhere up to a thousand cues and
each and every cue has to be assigned a
firework and then it's a case of
physically wiring in every single
igniter we tend to use an ignite of
every fireworks we have a high degree of
control over the show and then we run
the the fire file and stand back and
wait for the computer to fire all of the
thousand cues or so what we're
intentionally doing today is shifting
the time and rather than firing a
ten-minute sequence we're going to fire
all of the cues within a hundredth of a
second so that effectively everything
will lift almost instantaneously
together there are plenty of stories and
videos of fireworks display companies
that have made that same change by
accident or they've hit the test button
with everything live or they've zeroed
out the timings with what one company
called an unintentional additional
procedural step which in the media is
called a technical hitch or worse human
error and the investigation ends there
someone hit the wrong button that
explains it we don't need to look any
further but I think that's wrong and a
lot of other people think so too
as you go through firstly the testing
procedure then the checking procedure
and arming procedure
the computer will prompt questions
asking if they say safety area is clear
if people are close what the computer
does is sends a very low voltage down
the line to make sure and test for
continuity and we know in advance
without actually firing anything that
all the circuits are complete and that
we know that it's all going to fire as
as planned we then run through various
other test procedures to make sure that
there's coms with the modules and the
firing panel
final one is a firepower test just to
make sure that the capacitor in each of
the modules is fully working and
charging we have to make sure that we
think up of many scenarios that can
possibly go wrong that will causes
problems and it's all about mitigating
against that if it's possible for a
human to hit the wrong button and set
off an entire fireworks display by
accident then maybe the problem isn't
with the human it's with that button if
it's possible to mix-up minutes and
fractions of a second like we've done
deliberately then maybe the sister isn't
clear or maybe the pre-launch checklist
isn't thorough enough this isn't just
about fireworks it's about anything that
is somehow one human error away from
disaster people make mistakes and all
our systems need to be designed to be
ready for it that's why this button
doesn't actually do anything the
professionals over there are the ones
actually doing the firing taking away
[Laughter]
Wow now I see why they take longer than
that yeah